---
layout: post-en
title: A test Blog entry
author: Michael Albright
date: 2013-08-18
---
MFAM 544 2013-08-16
===================

### Vignettes

It is good to bring up our credentials in the beginning of the mediation. We can say that we have a graduate-level certificate in clinical mediation from the Association for Conflict Resolution. LLU has one of the very few (six or seven) programs in the country.

### Child Abuse

Whether abuse has happened in the past or is currently occurring, a CPS report is required, and it does not influence the mediation process. CPS takes care of it on its own.

Child Custody Options

1.  Alternate weeks

2.  Father has sole custody

3.  Mother has sole custody

4.  Father has week days and mother weekends

5.  Mother has week days and father weekends

Have each parent rate, from a scale from one to 10, how attractive each option is for them. Add up the numbers for each option, and the option with the highest number is likely the best option.

### Video

Goal is to have a written agreement which will then be used to eventually become the divorce decree.

Questions asked:

-   Have you retained attorneys? 

    -   Do you have any hearings?

    -   Do you talk to your attorney about mediation?

-   *What is the single largest concern that you have?*

Sessions typically are two hours in length, and mediation takes around six to eight sessions.

### Spousal Support

A spouse can receive enough spousal support to provide him or her with the same lifestyle as their pre-divorce life. When a couple has been married for 10+ years, spousal support will last indefinitely, or until the beneficiary dies or remarries. When married for less than 10 years, they can receive spousal support for half of the amount of time that they were married (e.g., if they were married for eight years, they can receive four years of spousal support).

Courts use an equation to determine spousal support. It can be accessed at [Xspouse][1]. The calculation gives a range and the couple can determine where within the range that they want to be in terms of payment of it. An agreement can be made if they would like to deviate from the range, but it must be fair in order to be approved by the judge.

Because California is a no-fault divorce state, it does not matter who initiates the divorce nor for what reasons, it will not affect spousal support.

### Kestner's Sixth Stage of Mediation

Agreement - the written memorandum of understanding is used as the basis for the judge's order.

No agreement - each partner retains their own attorney and begins litigation.

Partial agreement - mediator can put tougher this partial agreement so that it can be presented for court.

### Networking

It is a good idea to go to a California Bar Association conference in order to find attorneys who are also looking for a therapist counterpart to do business with.

### What should a mediator do if one of the spouses really wants a divorce while the other doesn't?

Call a caucus because their needs are very different. Discuss to the eager partner how their spouse is still shocked about it, and see if they are willing to slow the process down.

Then meet with the hesitant spouse and validate his or her feelings. Explain how our state is a no-fault divorce state and thus, despite her feelings, it will go forward. Help her to realize that, even though she might not be able to change the course of the divorce, she can at least contribute to the decision-making.

[1]: http://www.xspouse.com


